our movie starts with dr ellie arroway
working for the seti program at the
uracibo observatory in puerto rico
guided into science and communication
starting with amateur radio
by her now deceased father she listens
to radio emissions from space
hoping to find evidence of alien life
david drumlin the president's science
advisor pulls the funding from seti
because he believes that the endeavor is
futile
arrowway gains backing from haddon
industries run by secretive billionaire
industrialist sr hadden
which allows her to continue the project
at the very large array in new mexico
four years later with drumlin seeking to
close the seti program
arrowway discovers a signal repeating a
sequence of prime numbers
apparently sent from the star system
vega about 26 light-years away
this announcement causes drumlin and the
national security council led by michael
kitts to attempt to take control of the
facility
aeroway's team discovers a video hidden
in the signal
adolf hitler's opening address at the
1936 summer olympics in berlin
germany aroway and her team
postulate that this would have been the
first signal strong enough to leave
earth's ionosphere
reach vega and be transmitted back
the project is put under tight security
and its progress followed worldwide
arrowway finds that the signal also
contains more than 63 000 pages of
indecipherable data
the reclusive sr haddon secretly meets
with arrowway to provide the means to
decode the pages
the pages reveal schematics for a
complex machine that is determined to be
some kind of transport for a single
occupant
the nations of the world fund the
construction of the machine at the
kennedy space center in cape canaveral
an international panel is assembled to
choose a candidate to travel in the
machine
although arrowway is a front-runner to
go her hopes are scuppered by christian
philosopher palmer joss
a panel member whom arrowway met and
briefly became romantically involved
within puerto rico
when he brings attention to her atheism
the panel selects drumlin as more
representative of humanity
when the machine is first tested a
religious terrorist destroys the machine
in a suicide bombing
killing drumlin and several others
a cancer stricken haddon now in
residence on the mir space station
reveals to arrowway that his company had
secretly made a second machine in japan
and that arrowway will be the one to go
outfitted with several recording devices
arrowway enters the machine's pod
which is then dropped into three rapidly
spinning gimbal rings
causing the pod to apparently travel
through a series of wormholes
arrowway sees a radioarray-like
structure at vega and signs of an
advanced civilization on another planet
she then finds herself on a beach
similar to a childhood picture she drew
of pensacola florida
and a figure approaches that becomes her
deceased father
arrowway recognizes him as an alien
taking her father's form and attempts to
ask questions
the alien tells her that the familiar
landscape and form were used to make
their first contact easier for her and
that this journey was just humanity's
first step to joining other space-faring
species
arrowway falls unconscious as she begins
traveling back through a wormhole
she awakens to find herself on the floor
of the pod the mission control team
repeatedly hailing her
she learns that from outside the machine
it appears that the pod merely dropped
through the machine's rings and landed
in a safety net
arrowway insists that she was gone for
approximately 18 hours but her recording
devices show only noise
a congressional committee is formed and
speculates that the signal and machine
were a hoax designed by the now deceased
haddon
arrowway asks the committee to accept
the truth of her testimony on faith
in a private online conversation kits
and white house official rachel
constantine reflect on confidential
information that
although arrowway's recording device
only recorded static
it recorded 18 hours of it
our movie ends with arrowway and joss
reuniting an airway receiving ongoing
financial support at the vla
if you enjoyed this video help me grow
my channel by subscribing